# D4.1 Systematic Literature Review Protocol and Pilot Study
## 1. Research questions
### 1. Main study research questions
#### [RQ1] How many pull requests have been created on a particular project on Github?
#### [RQ2] Refering to specific users, how many pull requests of theirs have been accepted?

### 2. SLR questions
The overall aim of the SLR is to determine: 
<br /><br />“What is the difference between senior-level and junior-level software developers in terms of how many contributions are accepted to projects?”
<br />“How do the acceptance rate of contributions on software development projects differ with different leveled developers?”
<br />“How do different level software developers contribute to software development projects?”
<br /><br />In order to achieve this objective, and to ensure the collection of all relevant data, several research
questions have been created. These questions will help to ensure that the study will be comprehensive in its nature, whilst providing an in-depth analysis into the past use of robots to teach novices programming. The research questions are:
#### [SLRRQ1] What is the difficulty of the projects being studied to extract data from?
#### [SLRRQ2] What are the characteristics (i.e. how long have they been contributing to Github overall, level of expertise etc.) of the users that contribute to these projects?
#### [SLRRQ3] What is the difference of acceptance rates for contributors on projects on Github?
#### [SLRRQ4] What types of studies are being performed by researchers that investigate the expertise of different leveled software developers?
#### [SLRRQ5] What types of studies are being performed by researchers that investigate the acceptance rates of pull requests on Github?
#### [SLRRQ6] What is the scale of studies (e.g. number of github users/software developers, number of projects, number of pull requests per project etc.) that are being performed by researchers?
#### [SLRRQ7] Do collected studies suggest that senior-level developer's contributions are accepted more frequently than junior-level developers for software development projects?
## 2. Search strategy
### 1. Resources to be searched
Google Scholar and ACM
### 2. Main concepts and synonyms
  **Population:** Software developers, Senior-level, Junior-level
</br>**Intervention:** Contributions, pull requests, expertise measure
</br>**Outcomes of Relevance:** Software developer expertise/level, development project factors, bugs, status of pull requests, rate of acceptance for contributions
</br>**Experimental Design:** Empirical studies, theoretical studies, experience

### 3. Query string
RQ2: |  |
--- | --- | 
Referring to [specific users], | Population |
how many [pull requests] of theirs | Intervention |
have been [accepted]? | Outcomes of relevance |
### 4. Golden set for the validation of the search string
Papers returned by the query:
1. Rose, T. (2017). Towards understanding what factors a ECT by Tresa rose a ... Retrieved October 14, 2021, from https://curve.carleton.ca/system/files/etd/4d6605dd-eed2-4b0f-b1e1-1b92f6dea244/etd_pdf/d102ad239b0371a72a1c5c43978d82bd/rose-towardsunderstandingwhatfactorsaffectpull.pdf. 
2. Tsay, J., Dabbish, L., & Herbsleb, J. (2014, November 11). Let's talk about it: Evaluating contributions through discussion in github | Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering. Retrieved October 14, 2021, from https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2635868.2635882. 
3. Legay, D., Decan, A., & Mens, T. (2018, December 15). On the impact of pull request decisions on future contributions. Retrieved October 14, 2021, from https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.06269. 
4. Soares, D. M., De Lima, M. L., Murta, L., & Plastino, A. (2015, December 9). Rejection factors of pull requests filed by CORE team developers in software projects with high acceptance rates. Retrieved October 14, 2021, from https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7424445. 
5. Lenarduzzi, V., Nikkola, V., Saarimäki, N., & Taibi, D. (2020, August 28). Does code quality affect pull request acceptance? an empirical study. Retrieved October 14, 2021, from https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121220302090. 
6. Dey, T., & Mockus, A. (2020, March 2). Which pull requests get accepted and why? A study of popular NPM Packages. Retrieved October 14, 2021, from https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.01153. 
7. Yu, Y., Wang, H., Filkov, V., Devanbu, P., & Vasilescu, B. (2015). Wait for it: Determinants of pull request evaluation latency on github. 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. https://doi.org/10.1109/msr.2015.42 


## 3. Selection criteria
This selection describes the inclusion and exclusion criteria that will be used to ensure that only relevant literature is accepted into the SLR.
1. Inclusion criteria
  - Publications that include the use of GitHub and the characteristics of the users that contribute to these projects
  - Papers that involve a study on the acceptance of contributions based on software 'experience'
  - Publications with full text available
  - Papers that study the difference of acceptance rates for contributors on project in GitHub
2. Exclusion criteria
  - If the paper isn't focused on GitHub pull requests based on certain characteristics
  - Papers that doesn't propose or describe why pull requests aren't accepted
  - Papers/reports that don't have full text available
  - Papers that don't have software developers as a main focus
3. Selection process
The selection process will be performed by our team with a testing approach being applied after an interval to verify the selection process. The selection process is effectively divided into five phases: 
  i) Select the open source project on GitHub
  ii) Collect the factors that we need(i.e. if it includes many pull requests data, junior vs. senior-level developers, etc.)
  iii) Pre-process the data
  iv) Export and analyze data
  v) Discover relationships between acceptance rates and expertise of software developer
  
## 4. Data extraction
This section describes how the information that is required from each publication will be obtained. 
1. Data to be collected
All data will be extracted by our team. The results will then be compared and contrasted with one another. The following information will be extracted from accepted studies: 
  - Why the study was accepted into the SLR
  - How the data was collected and analysed during the study
  - Findings and conclusions
  - Effectiveness of 'experience' in GitHub projects 
  - The scale of studies (e.g. number of GitHub users/software developers, number of projects, number of pull requests, etc.) that are being performed
  - Number of contributors on a project
2. Data synthesis
  - There's a mid p-value between experience and acceptance, which means it’s hard to tell either way
  - Acceptance rate goes up with higher total # of PRs, and users with higher acceptance rates will contribute for longer (or users that contribute for longer        have higher acceptance rates)
  - There's a negative correlation between a user's acceptance rate and how long it takes for each of their PRs to be responded to

## 5. Pilot study
Follow your protocol until including n primary studies, where n is twice the number of members of the group (if there aren’t that many papers to 
be included, state that explicitly). 
1. Papers selected

| Paper | Included? |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| 1  | Yes |
| 2  | No (paper was not published)  |
| 3  | No (is not GitHub-centric)  |
| 4  | No (is not related to developer experience level) |
| 5  | Yes  |
| 6  | Yes  |
| 7  | Yes  |
| 8  | Yes  |
| 9  | Yes  |


2. Data collection
  - For each paper, collect information based on the structure defined in Section 4.1.
3. Data synthesis
  - Follow the strategy defined in Section 4.2 to synthesize the information collected.
